Welcome to our section on interactive content with javascript we're really going to be connecting our
javascript to that dorm.
So we saw earlier that there's so much information contained within the dorm and there's so many things
that we can do when we pull back information that's contained already within the browser.
So this is one of my favorite sections because I love and I enjoy using javascript to interact with
web pages and just make things happen.
There's really something truly amazing that you can do with javascript when you create those interactions
and you can visually see things happening and creating interactions with Web users.
And what's happening within their screens and in this section we're going to be basically making our
web content come to life.
So we're going to be looking at what's contained within the browser window and accessing that and making
use of that within our code.
We're also going to show you how you can open windows and access content that's contained within the
window.
So everything within the Windows object model so that's the one that the browser builds.
And that's where we get also access to the history and we can interact with information that's contained
within the browser window.
And then of course the document object is actually sitting within the Windows object.
So Windows object just sits outside and it gives us some really cool functionality as well.
So we're able to go backwards and forwards in history we're able to see the user's history we're also
able to set timeout methods within that window and we can even do things like getting the latitude and
longitude of the user.
And of course they do have to agree to that.
But you can pull that back into your code and you can do some pretty cool things with that latitude
and longitude such as one of the exercises that we're going to be doing is that we're going to be placing
a marker on the map wherever the user coming in and viewing our Web page is located.
So I know a little bit creepy but withes just shows the capabilities that are available and the information
that we have access to within javascript.
We're also going to look at event handlers and what happens when there is mouse events page load events
keyboard events.
So all kind of events and this is where that interaction happens because the user is going to be triggering
something they're going to create some type of interaction within the web page and we're going to pick
it up in javascript and make use of it.
So we're going to be also building you are IDE generator so a generator that takes input in from the
user and generates an output and also an image carrousel so image carousels are very useful very common
within web pages and also you build one from scratch using javascript also form validation.
So every form you need to validate and make sure that the user is putting in the data that you're expecting.
So form validation is a very useful functionality that you can do with javascript.
I'm going to show you how within this section also how we can force form inputs so we can set it up
so that it's only picking up digits or it's only picking up characters.
And it's not going to allow the user actually to input anything but a digit or a character so it can
basically quietly block off what the user can be putting into that input field.
Also drag and drop drag and drop is a really cool functionality.
And this is all available within the section.
So we're going to show you how we can drag content from one element and drag it into another element
and drop it in there.
And also one more project that we're going to build out and we're going to build out a game.
So this game is actually going to scramble names and then it's up to the user to guess which ones of
the presented content are the scrambled names.
So this is going to be a really nice neat functionality exercise where you can get really familiar with
what's available within the dorm.
So this section has a lot of great stuff and I know you're excited to get started.
So let's get started coding some interactive content using javascript.